I challenge people say if you think the
number of hours that's acceptable per
week for playing video games is greater
than zero what is that number because I
think the truth is if we can just be
honest with ourselves it's you're gonna
make me say one hour you're gonna maybe
say two hours like over the whole week
but that is about it the math doesn't go
much higher than that without this being
a real source of regret and remorse if I
could actually focus and sit down and
play the games that I bought I could get
through a few 80 hour games a year with
the free time most people most people
work like eight hours a day nine hours
they get homeless eight hours you cannot
be gaming more than four hours a night
at most at most are you kidding and
getting this lit and getting up for your
job and next morning people do it they
do five six hours a night yeah what are
they what are they on speed like her
lifestyle gamers man all right six times
for 24 hours and then each week and
they're doing point ten hours a day then
they're living life on microwavable soup
and mountain dew whatever that's why we
can universal health care there it is we
changed priorities as we get older we
don't have time to sit home anymore and
just play tons of games like by making
these games at people before I don't
know oh my god it's gonna take me a
hundred hours to complete this you you
are turning some people off I think at
the same time you know some people might
just want a shorter game as you'd have a
vocal minority I want to play game 450
hours well most people don't you know I
have a regular customer who I'd
mentioned this stuff before but it's on
my mind because I have this regular
customer who came in yesterday he was
just saying that you know he was talking
on how there are certain games that he
likes but he can only play them on
weekends because he gets home from work
and he's tired and you know by the time
he starts these games dragged so much
out that it doesn't feel like you can
ever really get a meaningful one-hour
play session in of some of these titles
is really doing anything it doesn't feel
like you did anything because everything
just takes so long yeah I just yeah you
know like you can't really you can't
really throw on fallout you know fallout
4 especially if you've never played it
before and play for an hour and feel
like you've really done anything for any
merit yeah it's weird I just looked up
I'm trying to compare to something like
like books because books can
take a lot of time to get through
there's no book that takes 30 hours to
read I don't think I looked up one of my
favorite books that's all big book I
think it's 700 pages or so great
expectations classic Dickens I love that
there's there's a website gets that
tracks how long it takes to read it
takes six hours and 22 minutes to read
great expectations and that's a long
book that's a long quality book with no
filler sure yes it's not interactive
like video games I get that but I'm just
trying to compare different mediums with
each other it'd be like no one would say
wow I wish great vacations took 12 hours
to read no one does that with breaks are
there are there that many people there
can that can buy multiple 80 hour games
in a year and not be phased by them and
just be like alright I'm fine there are
and I mean they have jobs I mean are
they kids there's nothing wrong with
stating your ethical claims in such
simple terms as good and bad I think
actually there's a kind of cowardice
very often when people refuse to state
the claims they're making that simply
that honestly that directly but it's
also often important for us to challenge
ourselves to calibrate what we mean by
good and bad because most likely if we
try to put a number to it if we try to
put a quantity to it
it's neither gonna be zero nor is it
going to be a hundred we get into some
interesting questions of what good and
bad really means in practice now an
example that might seem surprising to
some of you would be learning a foreign
language if you tell people that you're
learning French if you tell people that
you're learning Chinese if you tell
people that you're learning Japanese if
you tell people that you're learning
Sanskrit any sort of challenging foreign
language they're very likely to say to
you that's good people think it's good
and wonderful to learn or study a
foreign language whether that's as a
hobby or as a job or as a course of
education you're paying money for and in
some capacity you're paying to take
lessons you're paying a teacher people
just say that's good that's positive and
the vast majority of
people do not question what good even
means that this context and they don't
question the opportunity cost right
opportunity cost is a technical term in
economics they don't question what you
could be doing with that time that
you're not doing because you're studying
that language so if you just changed a
little bit if someone says to you
they've decided to start learning
Chinese you say oh that's good that's
one of them then they say to you yeah
they've got a they've got a two-year-old
daughter and they never see their their
daughter because they're so busy
studying Chinese say oh yeah I'm stunned
Chinese forty hours a week so I barely
see my kid all of a sudden you think
wait a minute maybe that's not good
maybe that's bad if someone tells you oh
yeah they're learning Chinese like oh
yeah it takes so many hours it's so much
hard work I'm failing my classes at
school you know they're studying some
other topic they're studying chemistry
yeah I'm neglecting my my classes at
school because I'm studying Chinese oh
yeah you know I'm almost getting fired
from my job and providing more
professional I've got some study chains
well guess what you know it takes hours
and hours and hours to study Chinese
it's a huge commitment it's a huge
sacrifice and the fact is there is
something else you're sacrificing
there's something else
you're not doing in order to learn
Chinese and already the question of what
good means it starts to take on a
different meaning if you think okay so
if you think learning Chinese is good is
it good for two hours a week is it good
for 10 hours a week is it good for 20
hours a week it's a good for 40 hours a
week and in case you hadn't guessed
these are questions I've had to ask
myself my life there may also be
implicit assumptions about about this
this simple word good that are linked to
the outcomes right like the assumption
is after five years you're gonna be
completely fluent in Chinese or maybe
even there's an assumption of a
particular career or a particular
university degree a particular
credential you're gonna get after five
years working in the language certainly
and
what if you don't get those outcomes
what if that assumption what if that
optimism was false that you work for
five years you don't get that outcome so
again real quick example it's easy for
people to say writing a novel is good
many people encourage me to write a
novel because they've they've read my
writing and they've seen my YouTube
videos they know the kind of stories I
can tell and they know I'm good at
writing they don't good at telling these
stories they're interested in my type of
content okay if you think writing a
novel is good we could repeat all the
things I just said that you know well
how many hours a day is it good for and
what about the other things I'll be
sacrificing like maybe I won't have time
to make these YouTube videos because I'm
writing this novel we have all those
considerations maybe I'm neglecting my
responsibilities as a parent as a
student as an employee to write this
novel but then what what did you assume
about the outcomes the results when the
novel was finished right like did you
assume it would sell a million copies
did you assume would sell 10,000 copies
the vast majority of authors who are
published in the year 2020 they don't
even reach as many viewers as this
YouTube video will reach alright yeah I
used to work in the publishing industry
we published really interesting really
important original books that would sell
500 copies in their total lifetime so
500 copies in 10 or 20 years right in
the first year some of them would sell
20 copies would just be a few
specialized libraries or something these
are important original books by the way
you know really meaningful stuff so the
life of an author if you're evaluating
in terms of its outcomes and now to just
switch very briefly to example something
bad something that's perceived as bad
you guys probably know I'm generally a
pretty sex positive person and it used
to be whether I did live streams or Q&A
sessions people would ask me for my kind
of moral position on pornography and it
often kind of say look you know what's
what's the big deal like come on men
want to look at pictures of beautiful
women women want to look at pictures of
beautiful men like this is part of life
like can't we just kind of have a
relaxed attitude and then sometimes
people would write back to me and they'd
talk about cases
of pornography addiction or you know
people they know in their lives and they
write back it said well you think it's
no problem but what if it's four hours a
day
what if it's a fee for four hours a day
and I've got it okay so now we're
calibrating it now we're putting a
quantity now we're putting an amount of
time to it and that that didn't even
occur to me because I assume I
completely utterly assume we're talking
about like five minutes a day like
maximum maximum 30 minutes a day but I
think most heterosexual men would find
it really boring for more than 10 or 15
minutes to look at you know this kind of
thing okay but I don't even know I don't
know the percentage I the statistics
they probably exist out there out there
somewhere but this is not even
engrossing in the way that watching uh
watching the news is increasing I mean
I'm interested in political news I spent
a fair bit of time watching and
listening to the news so to me those
things just aren't comparable that's not
conceivable that's not even a problem I
would imagine if you're asking me about
pornography cuz I don't even calibrate
the problem that way okay um so we're
talking about video games yes I can make
a simple statement video games are bad
and I think I think it is cowardly when
people refuse to say that playing video
games is a bad thing to do but it's also
important to look past the simple
adjective and ask what are our
assumptions what are our assertions on
either side about what bad really means
when you put a number to it when you
quantify it I have to tell you I don't
think of myself as an extremist on this
issue I think of myself as a moderate
because I've said repeatedly I'm willing
to admit there's some quantity of video
games that's so low and we could even
say there's some quality of video games
that's so low that they won't negatively
affect your your life in these ways
there was a time when I played the
original black and white space invaders
while I was exporting and transferring
files between my two computer
it's not worth describing the situation
but that would take kind of three
minutes and would be annoying and I had
this copy of it's really primitive
really simple game space invaders I
don't play it for a couple of minutes
while I was doing this technical tasks I
had to wait for the computer to the
computer action no I still don't think
that's good I think it would been more
meaningful and more useful even I just
sat there and stared at the wall and
thought about my life or thought about
what I'm gonna do today for three
minutes
I think that's more positive but this is
this is qualitatively such a simple or
primitive video game and also
quantitatively it's so little time I'm
willing to concede this the qualitative
element I normally don't talk about in
this channel but I admit now a video
game I would be interested in playing
still to this day you can guess how I
remember this game there was a game I
never played called Gemma fighter who
was also marketed under the name Pocket
fighter and it's actually a parody of
other video games it's very simple it's
very primitive just like what I said
before about pornography I cannot
imagine playing this game for even 30
minutes I would probably play this for
five minutes or three minutes at a time
or ever it's incredibly simple it's
incredibly primitive there is a
qualitative dimension we could look at
something like this and say well this is
not equivalent to playing Skyrim this is
not equivalent to playing any of the
first-person shooter games that people
find it so addictive and this is not
equivalent to playing Starcraft world of
warcraft final fantasy these these
current immersive there's a little bit
of a dimension there for talking about
the simplicity versus the sophistication
games but then as we all know the most
important quantity is time I think if
you're really being honest with yourself
if you just think about three hours a
week you can say this is too much this
is something bad and wrong I would
regret no matter what the game is and no
matter what the circumstances are in my
own life so if you think it out of a
seven-day week if there was one day of
that week there was a Saturday where you
sat down and played a videogame for
three hours I think you would look back
at that and regret it
I think you look back and then that Wow
I could have done something better with
those three hours and I think that even
if the three hours are spread out you
know over three days or whatever it is
there was one hour a day for three days
I think if you're just being honest with
yourself you can look at that and say
this is something bad and wrong I regret
I could have done something better I
wish I'd done something better even if
you had spent those three hours
listening to the news I mean we don't
have to compare this to something
tremendously positive in your life it
could just be something like that you're
learning a little bit about what's going
on in in politics but again I think of
myself as a moderate when I challenge
people who will just last few days and
be coming out to me and saying that they
think they think it's acceptable to play
some quantity of some video games and
they think they can still lead a
meaningful life and a positive life and
have all these aspirations and do these
good things that what I say back to them
is not no no the quantity must be zero I
challenge them to imagine what that
quantity really would be we all have
different responsibilities wives I have
fewer responsibilities than most I could
play a game like gem fighter just use
this example it's a game that somewhat
interests me partly because it's a
parody of other games I could play that
game for three hours today I don't have
a job unless you count YouTube I don't
have a lot of other responsibilities oh
and by the way this particular game is
so simple or so crude it's not gonna
have any emotional effect on me I'm not
gonna dream about this game it's not
gonna you know it's not gonna make me
feel excited and it's not gonna make me
feel sad and it's not gonna make me feel
angry if I lose I'm just not gonna care
about this game on any level if I play
it for three hours but you know if I did
that I would be thinking about a whole
lot of little things I really should
have done with that time even just
things I should have google-searched
trig that time there's some there's some
google searching I have to do for my
lawyer some things I have to look into
for my ongoing legal case there's some
things I have to Google search about
education I'm looking at other
universities I could enroll in and
career path there are some things just
on a brainstorming level
I could have done with those three
productive hours in my life let alone
you know alternatives like studying
Chinese there's a lot of productive
things that could have dumped those
hours I would really regret spending
those three hours this way even if there
were no other considerations and so I
challenge people say if you think the
number of hours that's acceptable per
week for playing video games is greater
than zero what is that number because I
think the truth is if we can just be
honest with ourselves it's you're gonna
maybe say one hour you're gonna maybe
say two hours like over the whole week
but that is about it the math doesn't go
much higher than that without this being
a real source of regret and remorse you
know finally I just want to say I
consider myself a moderate when there
were people who talk to me who are more
extreme in their opposition to video
games they have arguments
I can't refute like I think the people
who are more extreme than I am I think
they're correct and I can't argue
anything in favor of my moderate
position so I've mentioned that I felt
it was appropriate and good to provide
my daughter with video games during a
train journey when she was stuck sitting
in this seat for several hours all she
can do is sit there look at the window
you can't really play you can't do much
and we also provided her with pencil
crayons and markers and drawing and
coloring we actually did a lot of stuff
with her during that train journey I'm
not gonna list it all so we weren't we
weren't completely passive parents my
girlfriend Melissa and I we actually we
will really engage with her and even
when she was playing the game we were
talking with her and we were really
involved so I just said we were very
much present in our life and we were
enjoying her company while she was
playing the game and we had lots of
other activity however there are people
who got in touched me and said to me
note that I'm wrong that really the
right thing to as a parent would be to
refuse to provide the kid with video
games even if you're stuck on a train
that really good parenting would be for
the kid to have the experience of
being bored on a train of staring at the
window would be to having the experience
for the kid of the kid trying to amuse
herself and trying to amuse us and pass
the time and do these other activities
which we did have that actually gets bad
and wrong and it's lazy or bad parenting
I mean even to provide a video game for
those few hours when she's stuck on a
train for a long train journey I think
that's a strong argument but I can't say
that I'm right and they're wrong I can
just say that I'm being moderate that
I'm making a compromise that it seems
reasonable to me even though you know
what the UH the other side it seems to
me they're they're right I think the
other side who insists that it
absolutely has to be zero zero hours per
week not one hour two hours I think in
some ways they have a powerful argument
when I was a kid I played a video game
with no graphics at all give you a
screen shot here
it's called nethack it's part of the
roguelike series of games so if you
google for this roguelike it's probably
what you want to one of Google I had
dreams about this video game I had
dreams in this video game were like when
I was dreaming I saw the world as if
Ellison said this game not many times a
couple of times I had that experience so
if you think it's only super immersive
you know video games with wonderful
graphics and wonderful sound effects and
this social element of massively
multiplayer online if you think it's
only those games that can really dig
into your brain that can really affect
you or that it's only games that you
play for like 10 hours at a stretch you
can guess this isn't a game you play for
that many hours if you think those are
the only games that can really get you
can really change your life in this way
you're wrong the the simple and crude
games that I played as a kid they
screwed me up they damaged me they to be
blunt they've ruined my childhood in a
lot of ways and I know even if the games
with more immersive graphics and
storylines and the social element of
online play and the gambling element to
the element of you know loot boxes and
paying money and getting
they're all these ways in which video
games today are worse but I have to
admit from my own experience the
simplest and crudest video games already
they are bad and I can't make an
argument that just two hours a week is
ok because I know it's possible for it
to be 2 hours a week especially when
you're a kid and still in your mind like
your life is revolving around that
illusory of their world that's still
maybe those 2 hours a week may be
emotionally for you that's the highlight
of your life which is really sad and
tragic but for a lot of people it's not
that the game is something so great it's
that they have nothing else positively
going on we all have to be aware of the
trap of being moderate just for the sake
of being moderate of compromising just
because we think compromise itself is
some kind of wonderful moral cause when
you talk to Frenchmen when you talk to
the French they all believe they're
living a moderate balanced lifestyle
they think they're practicing moderation
in everything when they wake up in the
morning and start eating pork for
breakfast hey beef for lunch
they lamb for dinner and they'll tell
you they'll tell you they barely eat any
meat at all that they have a moderate
lifestyle of balanced nature they will
tell you with no irony that they barely
drink at all right and you if you get to
know some French people there they're
drinking serious amounts of alcohol like
five days a week and they think that's
moderate they think that's balance and
if you say to them hey I think you
should quit eating meat I think you
should quit drinking alcohol they'll say
back to you dead serious that they
believe in moderation and everything so
how can you have to quit moderation is
not an end in itself compromise is not
in itself in this sense being reasonable
is not in itself because when you say
being reasonable all you're talking
about is accommodating something that's
bad and
evil and wrong when you come to the
conclusion that playing video games is
bad as simple as the phrasing maybe that
doesn't mean and that doesn't require
that you know something better than
video games that you could do the u.s.
you have something better in your life
to replace it with if you come to the
conclusion that eating pork eating meat
is bad and evil and wrong you may not
have all the answers you may not have a
better diet in mind you may not have a
better philosophy in mind or what have
you there may not be something positive
replaced with but just recognizing that
this is bad that this is something you
want to eliminate for your life that's
going to be the beginning of asking a
set of questions really uncomfortable
questions that'll lead you to a more
meaningful life and it won't be the same
as my idea of what a meaningful life is
or must be right you're gonna ask those
questions and with time you're gonna
come to your own set of answers